---
layout: post
title: Modern web development using the JAMstack
categories: 
  - programming 
  - web
  - post
---

[home]({% link index.md %}) > [programming]({% link _programming/index.md %}) > [web]({% link _programming/web.md %}) > [jamstack]({% post_url 2018-08-19-jamstack %})
{: .sticky }

# Modern web development using the JAMstack 

[JAMstack](https://jamstack.org) is a term used to describe the modern web development practice of combining Javascript, API's and markup to build dynamic websites.

Javascript, HTML and CSS are referred to as static assets because they are interpreted and rendered by the browser. The word static is not a description of what can be built using these technologies. These assets are static because they are not generated dynamically by scripts running on a server. 

The biggest advantage static web pages have over dynamic web pages is speed. 

Dynamic web pages are built on demand by the server when they are requested. Static web pages on the other hand are prebuilt by the developer before being uploaded to the server. Static web pages free server time and resources, which translate into web pages that load faster. Faster page loads lead to a reduction in bounce rates, an increase in user retention and improved search engine ranking. 

Static web pages, unlike dynamic web pages, can be cached by content delivery networks (CDN) all over the world. These networks reduce the distance between users and website resources resulting in a reduction in page loading time. 

Functionality that, in the past required dynamic web pages, can today be provided to static web pages directly by the web browser or remote API's. 

[contact me]({% link collaborate.html %})
